Add Mini Apps series (#3938)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/mini-apps/an-example-project/index.md

---
layout: post
title: An example project
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-01-25
# updated: 2021-01-25
description: |

>   This chapter shows an example project that follows the programming the mini app way approach.

Author: ```suggestion
  This chapter shows an example project that follows the "programming the mini app way" approach.
```

>   This chapter shows an example project that follows the programming the mini app way approach.

Author: It was missing quotes to make the meaning clear.

tags:
  - mini-apps
---

## The app domain

In order to show the mini app way of programming applied to a Web app, I needed a small but complete enough app idea.
[High-intensity interval training](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-intensity_interval_training) (HIIT)
is a cardiovascular exercise strategy of alternating sets of short periods of intense anaerobic exercise with less intense recovery periods.
Many HIIT trainings use HIIT timers, for example, this [30&nbsp;minute online session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tXOZS3AKKOw)
from [The Body Coach TV](https://www.youtube.com/user/thebodycoach1) YouTube channel.

<div class="w-columns">
  <figure class="w-figure">
    <img src="./body-coach-green.png" alt="HIIT training online session with green high intensity timer.">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
      Active period.
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
  <figure class="w-figure">
    <img src="./body-coach-red.png"  alt="HIIT training online session with red low intensity timer.">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
      Resting period.
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

## HIIT Time example app

> For this chapter, I have built a baseline example of such a HIIT timer application aptly named

Author: ```suggestion
For this chapter, I have built a basic example of such a HIIT timer application aptly named
```

> For this chapter, I have built a baseline example of such a HIIT timer application aptly named

Author: Basic example

"HIIT Time" that lets the user define and manage various timers,
always consisting of a high and a low intensity interval,
and then select one of them for a training session.
It is a responsive app with a navbar, a tabbar, and three pages:

> - **Workout:** This is the page that is active during a workout. It lets the user select one of the timers
>   and features three progress rings:  the number of sets, the active period, and the resting period.
> - **Timers:** This page serves for managing the existing timers and for creating new ones.
> - **Preferences:** This tab allows the user to toggle sound effects and to select the language and theme.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Workout:** The active page during a workout. It lets the user select one of the timers
  and features three progress rings: the number of sets, the active period, and the resting period.
- **Timers:** Manages existing timers and lets the user create new ones.
- **Preferences:** Allows toggling sound effects and speech output and selecting language and theme.
```

</figure>

## Programming model

Each page has a corresponding `Page` class that fills the lit-html markup with life by providing implementations
of the event handlers and providing the data for each page.
This class also allows for the definition of lifecycle methods like `onShow()`, `onHide()`, `onLoad()`, and `onUnload()`.
Pages have access to a data store that serves for sharing optionally persisted per-page state and global state.
All strings are centrally managed, so internationalization is built right in.
Routing is all handled by the browser essentially for free, since all the app does is toggle iframe visibility and
for dynamically created pages change the `src` attribute of the placeholder iframe.
The listing below shows the code for closing a dynamically created page.

```js
import Page from '../page.js';

const page = new Page({
  eventHandlers: {
    back: (e) => {
      e.preventDefault();
      window.top.history.back();
    },
  },
});
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="./iframe.png" width="500" alt="In-app page realized as an iframe.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Navigation happens from iframe to iframe.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Styling

> Styling of pages happens per-page in its own, naturally scoped CSS file.

Author: ```suggestion
Styling of pages happens per-page in its own scoped CSS file.
```

> Styling of pages happens per-page in its own, naturally scoped CSS file.

Author: Yeah, the "naturally" adds confusion. Removed.

This means elements can usually just be directly addressed by their element names,
since no clashes with other pages can occur.
Global styles are added to each page, so central settings like the `font-family` or the `box-sizing`
do not need to be declared repeatedly.
This is also where the themes and dark mode options are defined.

> The listing below shows the rules for the Preferences page that lays out the various form elements

Author: Here, it's meant as the name of the tab.

> ---

Reviewer: Needs a new URL. We need some kind of common prefix. `web.dev/mini-app-example-project`?

Author: Used "mini-app" throughout.
